.topic 960

CAD, STRINGS, HORIZONTAL ALIGNMENT Information Box

 [PICTURE _bm1030.shg]

Move the cursor over DTM and when the [PICTURE _bm1.bmp] appears press the enter button on the mouse - this will take you to the relevant  info.


CAD Status Box
[PICTURE _bm1031.ipp]

This information box shows the status of the CAD data, the file name used to load or save the data and the number of elements. You cannot change anything on this page but the information can be quite handy when you want to know what the drawing consists of..
EXAMPLE:  Status = Cad is LOADED and not CHANGED				
		     File Name = C:.kcd				
		     Number of:  Lines = 982       Text = 8       Circ/Arc = 0       Dimensions = 0       Arrow = 0       Hatch = 0       Patterns = 0       Bitmaps = 0
		

Strings Status Box
[PICTURE _bm1032.ipp]

This information box shows the status of both general and alignment strings and the file name used to load or save the data.
EXAMPLE: Status = Strings LOADED and not CHANGED				
		    File Name = esu.kcs				
		    General Strings = 7				
		    Alignment Strings = 0


Horizontal Alignment Status Box
[PICTURE _bm1033.ipp]

The filename, project name and number of PI's (Points of Intersection) on the alignment are displayed in this information box.
EXAMPLE:  # of PI's = 0


Memory & Clear
[PICTURE _bm1034.ipp]

Information about the memory available is displayed.
Use the Clear button to delete DTM, CAD or String data.

.topic 940


MENU : Settings - Customize toolbars

[PICTURE clip0321.ipp]

Use this menu to customize toolbars
.topic 950

[PICTURE clip0326.bmp]

[PICTURE clip0327.bmp]
.topic 3020
Trouble Shooting : Adding CAD lines

Regular CAD lines are added by using the CAD, line, add function.

To add a line perpendicular to another use the CAD, line, add, Copycommand. Initially the new line will have the same length and direction of the base line.
Changing the direction is done by :

1) Using the Page up and down keys. This will rotate the line by the amount specified in the defaultmenu. The default increment that Model Maker uses is 1 degree.
2) Using the Ctrl Page up and down keys. This will rotate the line by 45 degrees at a time unless a different value has been specified in the default menu.
3) Pressing the HOME key. The line will be placed horizontally.

Changing the length is done by:

1) Pressing CTRL Home on the keyboard. The regular polar dialog box is displayed with the length and direction values of the copied line. In this dialog box you may change
any of the values and the line will be updated accordingly.

EXAMPLE:
[PICTURE _bm1219.ipp]
In this example we have 2 lines AB and CD. Lines EF and GH will be created.

1) Place a line with the same length as CD perpendicular to AB at E with BE being a specified distance.
Use the Cad Line Add Copy function and grab line CD at C.

  Move the cursor close to point E and press SHIFT TAB on the keyboard. The copied image of CD will now have the same direction as AB
Use the CTRL Page up key twice to add 90 degrees to the direction of the copied image. The new line is now perpendicular to AB.
Change the cursor snap mode to LINE diSt and point to line AB, close to where E is going to be.
You will be prompted for the distance you want to move from B in the direction of A. Notice that on this dialog box the total length of the base line, in this case AB, is displayed as reference. Enter the distance BE. The new line will be placed at point E.


2) Place the line GH perpendicular to AB. GH is exactly half the length of AB and G is midway between A and B.
Use the CAD Line Add Copy function and grab line AB at A.

  Use the CTRL Page up key twice to add 90 degrees to the direction of the copied image. The new line is now perpendicular to AB.
Press CTRL Home on the keyboard. The Polar dialog box is displayed. The current length of the copied image is displayed in the  Distance input box. Double Click inside the distance input box. The calculator is displayed with the current line length as default value. Divide the value by 2 and click the OK button. The halved value is returned to the polar dialog box. Click the OK button. The image of the copied line is half the original value. Change the cursor snap mode to LINE Mhid and point to line AB.
The mid point of line AB is calculated and the new line is added at G



.topic 3030
Trouble Shooting : Contour elevations not printing.

There could be a few reasons why the contours labels are not printing.

Reason 1.
1) In your plot parameters you have [PICTURE clip1075.bmp] checked.
That means the contours are drawn automatically by means of the QUICK method each time the screen is refreshed.

2) You also have [PICTURE clip1079.bmp] checked. Meaning when you exit the dialog box, a replot is done and the contours drawn.

Now this is the problem. When the contours are drawn using the quick method it does not label or spline the contours.
Contours are only labeled and splined when using the normal contour method.


Reason 2.
1) In plot parameters, contour options [PICTURE clip1080.bmp] you have the distance between consecutive labels as a too large value. Eg. 500mm.
Change that to about 100mm. That means that the labels will be placed on average 100mm (according to scale) away from each other.

Reason 3.

The plot scale is so small that there are no space between the triangles for Model Maker to label the elevations.

To correct the problem:

Put the REPLOT ON EXIT off. Set the interval to 100mm. Use the normal CONTR method.
Change the plot scale to a bigger value. If you are working at a 1/5000 scale, try a 1/1000 scale.


.topic 3040
Trouble Shooting : Digitizing data.

Model Maker communicates with digitizers by means of a very simple serial interface. If you adhere to a few basic rules you should have no problem to get the most out of your digitizer when working in Model Maker.

The Basics

1) Model Maker uses it's own serial interface software to communicate with the digitizer through the comms port.
2) The digitizer must be in POINT mode.
3) The digitizer must send out the data in ASCII format.
4) Any Windows software drivers for the digitizer must be deactivated in order for Model Maker to handle the communication.

Setting up the system

1) Check your digitizer's manual and ensure that data is send out in POINTS mode and in ASCII format.
On some digitizers you will have to change certain DIP switches while on others you will have to use the digitize stylus to set certain BANK switches. The switch
combinations will vary from one digitizer brand to another and it could require some effort to get it right.

Following are some references to the settings of a Calcomp drawing board. Note, this is only an example and is not necessary an indication of the settings for other digitizing tablets.


[PICTURE _bm1223.ipp]
The BANK switches located in the corner of the tablet.


[PICTURE _bm1224.ipp]
In the manual, the setting of switches 1 and 2 to define the operating (POINT) mode.


[PICTURE _bm1225.ipp]
In the manual, the settings for certain simulations. For Model Maker, select any simulation that offers an ASCII format.


2) Note what your tablet's BAUD rate, DATA bits and STOP bits are. This has to be entered into the appropriate input boxes in Model Maker.
[PICTURE _bm1226.ipp]
The comms port number and other communication settings in Model Maker.


3) Check how the digitizer behaves by opening the comms port.
		[PICTURE _bm1227.ipp] >> [PICTURE _bm1228.ipp] >> [PICTURE _bm1229.ipp]

4) After clicking the OPEN button, check the input window and ensure that a message similar to this [PICTURE _bm1230.ipp] is returned. If an error message is displayed eg. [PICTURE _bm1231.ipp] check and see if you have selected the correct comms port number.

5) Assuming the comms port opened without a problem, go ahead and click the stylus on the digitizer. You should see the returned string displayed in the input window.

TYPICAL INPUT FROM A DIGITIZER IN POINT MODE AND ASCII FORMAT (Desired format)
[PICTURE _bm1232.ipp]
If your output looks like this example you may continue with the digitizing.

TYPICAL INPUT FROM A DIGITIZER IN STREAM MODE AND BINARY FORMAT (Unacceptable format)
[PICTURE _bm1233.ipp]
If your input looks like this, please switch the digitizer off and make the necessary adjustments to the digitizer controls before trying again.



6)                                                                                                                                               Note:
                                               After the digitizer is configured correctly, note what the switch settings are or save it in the digitizers memory.
                                                                      Remember to preset it again when using the digitizer again on another time.


[PICTURE _bm207.bmp]		Example : Setting up a CALCOMP DRAWINGBOARD 3 (A3)

[PICTURE _bm26.bmp]		Set the digitizer to simulate a : CALCOMP 9100

In Model Maker -
[PICTURE _bm26.bmp]		Digitizer Setup
				Type is Digitizer
[PICTURE _bm26.bmp]		Interface Setup
				Baud is 9600, Databits is 7, Parity is even, Stopbits is 1, DTR is ON, RTS is OFF, BREAK is OFF
[PICTURE _bm26.bmp]		Data Transfer String
				__YYYYYXXXXX (that is 2 underscores  & 5 Y   5 X)


Related Topics:
Digitizing






.topic 3050
Trouble Shooting : Finding files

If you have saved some design files and can't find it again, consider the following.

Model Maker is actually 3 programs in one. The DTM and CAD modules use the Files, Open and Save functions to work with data files. The irrigation's files are stored in the irrigation dialog box itself and not by using Files, Open and Save.
If you are using the irrigation's open and save and still can not find irrigation design files, use the windows Explorer's find option. Seek for files of *.MIR type.
Note which folder was used and then let Model Maker load the data from there.

You may also use the Model Maker Find File option located on the File dialog box.




.topic 3060
Trouble Shooting : Importing Images

Model Maker can work with a digitizer when available but can also work with scanned bitmaps images.

When you have an existing contour plan but no digitizer to digitize the information with, scan your plan and save the images in either BMP or JMP format. Then use Model Maker's CAD and Bitmap function to load the bitmap (or jpg). Initially, position the bitmap at any position.
Inspect the bitmap and determine what the correct values for the top left and bottom right co-ordinates must be. Load the bitmap again but this time, position the top left and bottom right points by using the co-ordinate (capital W) snap mode. If you then start to add lines or survey points to Model Maker by pointing to the bitmap image (using Freehand mode), the new points should be at the correct co-ordinates.

Related Topics
Add Points
Add Lines
.topic 3070
Trouble Shooting : Knowing the layer

In the CAD module, each of the elements are allocated to a certain layer name before being added to the data base.

In particular, the pen and text attribute dialog boxes are most often used to define the layer names of the elements. To determine the layer name to which a certain elements belongs, use the following functions.


Lines
1) Use the line info function to access the attributes of a CAD line.Click on CAD, Line, Info. A dialog box displays all the coordinates.
Click the Attribute button to get to the layer dialog box.

2) Use the Pen button on the right hand menu. In the dialog box, click the Line button and indicate the line in question. The dialog box will be updated with the attributes of the selected line.

3) Use the Speed menu, CAD - Info of element option.
On the speed bar, click the ? button and point to the selected line element. The line attributes panel will be updated with the new values.
This is the quickest method of knowing the line information. Keep in mind that this function scans the drawing for the closest line, circle/arc or text element.


Text
1) Use the text edit function on the CAD menu and click the text in question. The dialog box with all the attributes of the text element will be displayed.

2) Use the Speed menu, CAD - Info of element option.
		On the speed bar, click the ? button and point to the selected text element. The text attributes panel will be updated with the new values.
		This is the quickest method of knowing the line information. Keep in mind that this function scans the drawing for the closest text, line or circle/arc element.


Circle/Arc
1) Use the circle info function to access the attributes of a CAD circle. Click on CAD, Circle, Info. A dialog box displays all the co-ordinates.
Click the Pen & linetype button to get to the layer dialog box.

2) Use the Pen button on the right hand menu. In the dialog box, click the Circle button and indicate the line in question. The dialog box will be updated with the attributes of the selected circle.

3) Use the Speed menu, CAD - Info of element option. On the speed bar, click the ? button and point to the selected line element.
The line attributes panel will be updated with the new values. This is the quickest method of knowing the line information.
Keep in mind that this function scans the drawing for the closest circle/arc, text or line element.


Hatch
1) The attributes of the hatch element can only be accessed by using the CAD, Hatch, Par function. Click the Pattern option.
The hatch attribute dialog box is displayed. On this box, click the Change button to access the pen and layer dialog box.


Arrow
1) An arrow is added using the same default pen attributes used for adding CAD lines.

2) To determine the layer name of an existing arrow use the CAD, Arrow, Head option. Indicate the selected arrow and use the Pen and Linetype button to get to the attribute dialog box.


Dimension
1) Dimensions use their own dialog box to define the attributes.

2) To edit the layer of an existing dimension, use the CAD, Dim, Edit, Parameter option.


General layer functions
To globally determine the layer of a group of elements, use the Global orIdentify functions. Select the layer options and Model Maker will indicate to you all the elements that are on a certain layer. Another option is to use the Display function in which all the layers used in the drawing is listed.
In this dialog box you may display or hide selected layers.





.topic 3080
Trouble Shooting : Plotting & Scale

MM does not provide an actual print preview.

Use the following method to check the plot area.
First make sure that you are either working in meters or feet.(Set that on the top menu, Setting Configuration). On the left menu Gen, use the pAperoption and use the SIZE option to set up your printer and then the NEWP function to position the paper frame.

MM will then at the set scale, display a frame of the selected paper size. You can then determine how the design is actually going to fit on the printer. (like  a print preview)

The areas outside of the paper frame will be ignored when the plot is generated.
Remember MM works in scales of format 1:??? not in for example 1 inch=?? feet. For instance, a scale of 1inch=40 feet can be converted as 1inch=40*12 inches which is then equal to a MM scale format of 1:480.

Related Topics
Output

